ladies and gentlemen the President of
the United States and mrs. Reagan and
mother Teresa
and applauses for you
you
thank you ladies and gentlemen won't you
be seated this great house receives many
great visitors but none more special or
more revered than our beloved guests
today a month ago we awarded the Medal
of Freedom to 13 heroes who have done
their country proud only one of the
recipients could not attend because she
had work to do
not special work not unusual work for
her but everyday work which is both
special and urgent in its own right
mother Teresa was busy as usual saving
the world and I mean that quite
literally and so we rather appreciated
her priorities and we're very happy
indeed that she could come to America
this week now a moment ago I said we'd
awarded the Medal of Freedom to heroes
who've done our country proud
and I believe mother Teresa might point
out here that she is most certainly not
an American but a daughter of Yugoslavia
and she has not spent her adult life in
this country but in India however it
simply occurred to us when we wanted to
honor her that the goodness in some
hearts trans ESTs all borders a tall
narrow nationalistic considerations some
people some very few people are in the
truest sense citizens of the world
mother Teresa is and we love her so much
we asked her to accept our tribute and
she graciously accepted and I will now
read the citation most of us talk about
kindness and compassion
but mother Teresa the saint of the
gutters lives it as a teenager she went
to India to teach young girls in time
Mother Teresa began to work among the
poor and the dying of Calcutta her order
of the missionaries of charity has
spread throughout the world serving the
poorest of the poor mother Teresa is a
heroine of our times and to the many
honors she has received including the
Nobel Peace Prize we add with deep
affection and endless respect
the Presidential Medal of Freedom
[Applause]
may I say that this is the first time
I've given the medal of freedom with the
intuition that the recipient might take
it home melt it down and turn it into
something that can be sold to help the
poor and I want to thank you for
something mother Teresa your great work
and your life have inspired so many
Americans to become personally involved
themselves in helping the poor so many
men and women in every area of life in
government in the private sector have
been led by the light of your love and
they have given greatly of themselves
and we thank you for your radiant
example I am most unworthy of this
generous gift half president mr. Regan
and his wife and new people of United
States but I accepted for the greater
glory of God and in the name of the
millions of poor people where this gift
in spirit and in love will penetrate the
hearts of the people for in giving it to
me you are giving it to them to my hands
it's a great love and concern I've never
realized that you love the people so
tenderly I had experience I was last
time here a sister from Ethiopia phoned
me and said my people our people are
dying our children are dying mother do
something and the only person that came
in my mind while she was talking it was
the President and immediately I wrote to
him and I said
don't know but this is what happened to
me and next day it was that immediately
he arranged to bring food to our people
and I can tell you the gift that has
come from your people from your country
has brought life new life to our
suffering people in Ethiopia I also want
to thank the families here in United
States for their continual and delicate
love that they have given and they have
shown by a giving their children to
become sisters and to serve the poor
throughout the world we are now over all
of the world and trying to bring the
tenderness and the love of Jesus and you
you cannot go where we go you cannot do
what we do but together we are doing
something beautiful for God and my
gratitude to you president and your
family and to your people is my prayer
for you that you may grow in holiness
through this tender love for the poorest
of the poor this love begins at home in
your own family and it begins by praying
together prayer gives a clean heart and
a clean heart can see God and if you see
God in each other you will have love
peace joy together and works of love our
works of peace I love begins at home
so my sisters brothers and fathers you
are going and all artpool people
thousands and thousands and thousands of
people that we deal with I bring their
gratitude to you and keep the joy of
loving love them
beginning in your own family first and
that love we penetrate our right through
the farthest place where no one has ever
been with the tenderness and love of
Christ
I remember that whatever you do to the
list you do it to him jesus said you did
it to me but the wonderful opportunity
for each one of us to be twenty-four
hours with Jesus and in doing what we
are doing as he said if you receive a
little child in my name you receive me
if you give a glass of water in my name
you'll give it to me what the wonderful
dutiful tenderness and love of Christ
for each one of us so once more I want
to thank you for this and this beautiful
gift which I'm sure it will bring great
joy to our people by sharing it with
them god bless you and keep you in his
heart
you